ToDo.md, before:



# TODO: Issues and Fixes for humann3_tools

## 🛠️ Bugs to Fix
- [ ] It doesn't seem downstream pipeline is running after humann anymore
- [ ] move kneaddata and humann3 output files to a different directory then delete the temp directory
`

## 🔧 Features to Improve
- [ ] Check if intermediate files already exist before performing steps in the analysis
        e.g. if Kneaddata output files already exist, skip kneaddata


```bash


	
humann3-tools 	--run-preprocessing \
	--log-file test.log \
	--log-level DEBUG \
	--output-dir test.out2 \
	--output-prefix test- \
	--kneaddata-dbs  /home/david/Databases/KneadDataDB /home/david/Databases/BT2ContaminantDB \
	--threads 24 \
	--sample-key TestKey.csv \
	--use-metadata \
	--seq-dir /home/david/Data/TrimmedMSSFiles/ \
  	--kneaddata-output-dir ~/Data/TrimmedMSSFiles \
  	--humann3-output-dir ~/Documents/Alignments/Humann3Alignments \
	--pathway-dir test.out2 \
	--gene-dir test.out2 \
	--group-col "Group" \
	--paired \
	--decontaminate-pairs strict \
	--annotations-dir annotations

Commit message:

modified:   ToDo.md 	modified:   humann3_tools/__pycache__/cli.cpython-312.pyc 	modified:   humann3_tools/cli.py 	modified:   humann3_tools/preprocessing/kneaddata.py 	modified:   humann3_tools/preprocessing/parallel.py 	modified:   test.log 	new file:   test.log3

ToDo.md, after:



# TODO: Issues and Fixes for humann3_tools

## 🛠️ Bugs to Fix
- [ ] It doesn't seem downstream pipeline is running after humann anymore
- [ ] move kneaddata and humann3 output files to a different directory then delete the temp directory
- [ ] in cli.py , if args.use_metadata is True but no --seq-dir is provided, the current code does not execute metadata-based file collection.
`

## 🔧 Features to Improve
- [ ] Check if intermediate files already exist before performing steps in the analysis
        e.g. if Kneaddata output files already exist, skip kneaddata


```bash


	
humann3-tools 	--run-preprocessing \
	--log-file test.log \
	--log-level DEBUG \
	--output-dir test.out2 \
	--output-prefix test- \
	--kneaddata-dbs  /home/david/Databases/KneadDataDB /home/david/Databases/BT2ContaminantDB \
	--threads 24 \
	--sample-key TestKey.csv \
	--use-metadata \
	--seq-dir /home/david/Data/TrimmedMSSFiles/ \
  	--kneaddata-output-dir ~/Data/TrimmedMSSFiles \
  	--humann3-output-dir ~/Documents/Alignments/Humann3Alignments \
	--pathway-dir test.out2 \
	--gene-dir test.out2 \
	--group-col "Group" \
	--paired \
	--decontaminate-pairs strict \
	--annotations-dir annotations
